---
layout: post
title: Shortcuts
permalink: shortcuts
---

# Impostor Syndrome Blog
### Shortcuts

My route towards becoming a web developer is unconventional to say the least, but I think it's becoming more commonplace with the abundance of online tutorials, Stack Overflow, and reputable (and some not so reputable) coding bootcamps.

First, let me give you a bit of my background. I finished my undergraduate studies with a Bachelor of Arts in English Literature. From there, I spent the next 6 years in Project Management.

My job required that I discuss details about the software projects to my clients. My problem was that I didn't always understand those details myself and had to run back and forth to my development team to get their explanation on things. Even then, I didn't always feel comfortable pretending to be an expert on the topic. Because of this, I felt that I should teach myself how to code so that I could become a better Project Manager, and that it would add a few cool tricks to my toolbelt.

What I immediately realized was that the ability to code gave me superpowers and I kept diving in more and more. Eventually, I realized that I wanted to code for a living, believing I could impact projects at a much lower level than I ever could as a Project Manager.

Now, this is the point where I wished there was an easy way to become a software engineer. What a *silly notion*. I tried studying code after work hours but time was against me given all the extra obligations I had at home (and also because I was usually burnt out after a full work day).

What happened soon afterwards was my decision to quit my well-paying, lucrative job and jump head-first into the programming world.

What followed next was one of the most dreadful times in my life as well as the time where I found the most growth. I had concurrently gone through a life-altering, personal event and it made me even more convinced that it was a good time to hit the big reset button on life. I became an Uber driver to pay the bills while I studied (not a great source of income but flexible). My life for the next 6 months was Uber in the mornings, then study at Starbucks until closing, with a bit of Project Management on the side for the extra cash. It was gruesome and tiring, but lovely and exhilarating at the same time.

The method I chose to learn to code was through Launch School (formerly Tealeaf Academy). I had done several online tutorials on "how to code" but I wanted something more concrete and something that would guide me to become a professional. At the time, there weren't many physical coding bootcamps available in Southern California and I couldn't afford to move to the Bay Area. Launch School provided an affordable and flexible alternative, and I would argue that the quality of their support matched (and perhaps even exceeded) that of physical coding bootcamps. The quality of their curriculum and their approach to teaching were also reasons why I chose them.

This was also the beginning of my imposter syndrome. Three months after I had quit my job, I had been coding and studying programming for about 10 to 11 months. My family and close friends saw what I was doing and thought I was insane. They do what loved ones are supposed to do: they tell you to stop following your dreams. Maybe not directly, but they were worried that I was killing career that I worked hard to build. They insisted that I look for a new Project Manager role or work in management somewhere else given that I already had experience there and was good at it. They also told me that I was too old to start a new career now (I was 29 at the time), especially as a web developer where I would need to compete against a lot of young talent. It dug into my budding insecurity that maybe I really was crazy and that what I was doing really may amount to nothing and that time away from Project Management would make it harder to go back in. Even some of my Uber clients tried to talk some sense into me saying it was potential career suicide!

I gave in. Somewhat. An opportunity to become a Regional Manager at a large chain retailer landed on my lap and all signs were pointing towards following that road. I complied with my loved ones' earnest request to just try, and I made it to the 3rd of 4 interviews. When I arrived for that 3rd interview, suddenly I felt like drowning. What was I doing? Was I giving up on my dream? Why is it that though all signs are pointing in this "right" direction, the one tiny spark off to the side was what was drawing most of my attention? I went ahead into the interview and had the absolute worst interview of my life. I had no enthusiasm, no energy, nothing. It couldn't be helped. I'm not a natural salesperson and I'm horrible at hiding my true feelings.

When I arrived home after the interview, I shortly after received a call from the retailer saying they had decided to move on to other candidates. I hung up the phone and immediately began to cry. I felt this huge sense of relief and knew that I would be killing my true self if I had decided not to follow this path. This toughened my resolved to become a professional programmer. I called my family and friends to tell them I didn't get the job, and that was enough to get them off my case for a while longer while I continued the Uber and Starbucks grind.

One great way I found that helped dispell my imposter syndrome was going to meetups. At the time, there were only a handful of meetups and they were all pretty hard to get to. What I often found was a group of people with a range of experiences and knowledge. Even if a presenter was showing some brand spanking new technology that I had no clue about, I never felt out of place in meetups because there was always someone who was at least in the same boat as I was. And when working in pairs, you often find that you have some knowledge or understanding of concepts that someone else is struggling with and vice versa, so overall they're pretty positive environments.

It was now February which meant that I had been grinding with code for a little over a year and that's when an opportunity suddenly came. I had traveled to Japan on vacation back in 2014 and totally fell in love with the country. At that time, I already had an inkling of thought that I may choose to become a programmer and leave my Project Management path, so I started to look up anything related to the programming scene out in Tokyo. I randomly signed up for a newsletter via Tokyodev (look up details to this later), and since the time of signing up, never had received any emails from him, until now. The email included a job opportunity in Japan and its requirements fit my ability and knowledge. So I went and applied but didn't get the job. However, since I had tailored a resume specifically for the Tokyo market, I decided to shoot my resume around to other companies and I eventually landed a job. I was flown out to Tokyo and began my first job as a professional web developer.

Everything was brand new to me--I was in a foreign country where I didn't speak or read the language; and it was my very first job as a web developer, albiet in a completely different work culture environment. On top of continually working and learning for my career, I had to figure out how to order food and find my way home each day. Every day was a constant struggle but I kept telling myself that things would get easier with time, and that failure was to be expected before I made any real advancements. One very embarassing example of this was when I was doing some paired programming with one of our senior programmers. He asked me to first review some of the code and while I was, I had a question for him: "What's this backwards hashrocket mean?" If you don't already know, a "hashrocket" is a special operator in languages such as Ruby and PHP that is used to declare a hash (and it also looks sort of like a rocket if you use your imagination ;-) ). So my colleague looks at what I'm referring to and tells me, "That's not a backwards hashrocket, that's 'less than or equal to.'" You can imagine how red my face grew and how stupid I felt at that moment, but my colleague laughed it off and said, "I guess it does look like a backwards hashrocket," so I'm grateful to have someone who didn't take it personally that I was still learning. I still remember this incident very vividly and it's a great reminder for me that I've come a long way and that mistakes and failures are what helps us grow.

This was a very long introduction, but I wanted to figure out a way to dispell my own imposter syndrome and to help others who may be going through the same struggles. My two-stage plan to dispell my imposter syndrome, at least according to my potentially fragile New Years Resolution brainstorm, is to write this blog alongside my other blog on more technical stuff. The techincal blog will help reinforce my own programming knowledge and allow me to explore and research other topics of interest. This "imposter syndrome" blog will be a good breather from the technical stuff and I think it'll be fun to share some
